# Why Should You Learn About Linux?

- The most important technology for IT professionals to understand may be Linux.

- Linux is used everywhere. If you use the internet at all, you're already using Linux in your daily life. Perhaps the most obvious way in which you interact with Linux systems would be through browsing the worldwide web and using e-commerce sites to buy and sell products.

- But Linux is used for much more than that. It manages point-of-sale systems and the world's stock markets. It is used to power smart TVs and in-flight entertainment systems. It powers most of the top 500 supercomputers in the world. Linux provides the foundational technologies powering the cloud revolution and the tools used to build the next generation of container-based microservices applications. Emerging software-based storage technologies and big-data solutions are being built on Linux.

- In the modern datacenter, Linux and Microsoft Windows are the major players, and Linux is a growing segment in that space. Some of the many reasons to learn Linux:

	- If you're a Windows person, you'll need to interoperate with Linux.

	- If you're doing application development, it's likely your application or its runtime will be hosted on Linux.

	- If you're working in the cloud, your cloud instances may be based on Linux, and your private or public cloud environment will probably be based on Linux.

	- If you're working with mobile applications or the Internet of Things (IoT), the chances are great that the operating system of your device will be based on Linux.

	- If you're looking for new opportunities in IT, Linux skills are in high demand.

## What makes Linux great?

- There are many different answers to the question "What makes Linux great?", but three of them are:

	- Linux is open source software.
	
		Being open source doesn't just mean that you can see how the system works. You can also experiment with changes and share them freely for others to use. This means improvements are easier to make, enabling faster innovation.

	- Easy access to a powerful and scriptable command-line interface (CLI).

		From the beginning, Linux has been built around the basic design philosophy that allows all administration to be done from the CLI. This enables easier automation, deployment, and provisioning, and simplifies both local and remote system administration. Unlike other operating systems, these capabilities haven't had to be developed after the fact, and the assumptions of the system have always been to enable these important capabilities.

	- Linux is modular and operating system components can easily be replaced or removed.

		Components of the system can be upgraded and updated as needed. A Linux system can be a general-purpose development workstation, or an extremely stripped-down software appliance.
