# Types of Open Source Licenses

There is more than one way to be open source. The terms of the software license control how the source can be combined with other code or reused, and hundreds of different open source licenses exist. But in order to be open source, licenses must allow users to freely use, view, change, compile, and distribute the code.

There are two broad classes of open source license that are particularly important:

	- Copyleft licenses that are designed to encourage keeping code open source.

	- Permissive licenses that are designed to maximize code reusability.

Copyleft, or "share-alike" licenses, require that anyone who distributes the source code, with or without changes, must also pass along the freedom for others to also copy, change and distribute the code. The basic advantage of these licenses is that they help to keep existing code, and improvements to that code, open and add to the amount of open source code available. Common copyleft licenses include the GNU General Public License (GPL) and the Lesser GNU Public License (LGPL).

Permissive licenses are intended to maximize the reusability of source code. Users can use the source for any purpose as long as the copyright and license statements are preserved, including reusing that code under more restrictive or even proprietary licenses. This makes it very easy for this code to be reused, but at the risk of encouraging proprietary-only enhancements. Several commonly used permissive open source licenses include the MIT/X11 license, the Simplified BSD license, and the Apache Software License 2.0.
