# Who Develops Open Source Software?

It is a misconception to think that open source is developed solely by an "army of volunteers" or even an army of individuals plus Red Hat. In fact, open source development today is overwhelmingly professional. Many developers are paid by their organizations to work with open source projects to construct and contribute the enhancements they and their customers need.
Corporate contributions to Linux

Corporate contributions to Linux (Kernel 3.3 - 3.10):
	
	- RED HAT*
	- INTEL
	- TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
	- LINARO
	- SUSE
	- IBM
	- SAMSUNG
	- GOOGLE
	- VISION ENGRAVING SYSTEMS
	- CONSULTANTS
	- WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS
	- ORACLE
	- BROADCOM
	- NVIDIA
	- FREESCALE

Volunteers and the academic community do play a very important role and can make vital contributions, especially in new technology areas. The combination of formal and informal development provides a highly dynamic and productive environment.

## Who is Red Hat?

Red Hat (https://www.redhat.com) is the world's leading provider of open source software solutions, using a community-powered approach to reliable and high-performing cloud, Linux, middleware, storage, and virtualization technologies. Red Hat's mission is to be the catalyst in communities of customers, contributors, and partners creating better technology the open source way.

Red Hat's role is to help customers connect with the open source community and our partners in order to effectively use open source software solutions. We actively participate in and support the open source community, and many years of experience have convinced us of the importance of open source to the future of the IT industry.

Red Hat is most well-known for our participation in the Linux community and the Red Hat Enterprise Linux distribution. However, Red Hat is also very active in other open source communities including middleware projects centered on the JBoss developer community, virtualization solutions, cloud technologies such as OpenStack and OpenShift, and the Ceph and Gluster software-based storage projects, among others.
