# Development of Red Hat Enterprise Linux

Red Hat develops and integrates open source software into Red Hat Enterprise Linux through a multistage process.

	- We participate in supporting individual open source projects. We contribute code, developer time, resources, and other support, often collaborating with developers from other Linux distributions. This helps to improve the general quality of software for all of us.

	- We sponsor and integrate open source projects into a community-driven Linux distribution, Fedora. Fedora provides a free working environment that can serve as a development lab and proving ground for features that may be incorporated into our commercially-supported products.

	- We stabilize the software to ensure that it's ready for long term support and standardization, and integrate it into our enterprise-ready distribution, Red Hat Enterprise Linux.

## Fedora

Fedora is a community project that produces and releases a complete, free Linux-based operating system. Red Hat sponsors the community and works with community representatives to integrate the latest upstream software into a fast-moving and secure distribution. The Fedora project contributes everything back to the free and open source world, and anyone can participate.

However, Fedora is focused on innovation and excellence, not long-term stability. New major updates happen every six months, and they can bring significant changes. Fedora only supports releases for about a year (two major updates). This can make Fedora less suitable for enterprise use.

## Red Hat Enterprise Linux

Red Hat Enterprise Linux is Red Hat's enterprise-ready, commercially supported Linux distribution. The leading platform for open source computing, it's not just a collection of mature open source projects. Red Hat Enterprise Linux is extensively tested, with a large supporting ecosystem of partners, hardware and software certifications, consulting services, training, and multi-year support and maintenance guarantees.

Red Hat bases its major releases of Red Hat Enterprise Linux on Fedora. But after that, Red Hat can pick and choose which packages to include, make further enhancements (contributed back to the upstream projects and Fedora), and make configuration decisions that serve the needs of customers. Red Hat helps vendors and customers engage with the open source community, to work with upstream development to develop solutions and fix issues.

Red Hat Enterprise Linux is provided through a subscription-based model. Since this is open source software, this isn't a license fee. Instead, it pays for support, maintenance, updates, security patches, access to the knowledgebase on the Red Hat Customer Portal, certifications, and so on. The customer is paying for long-term support and expertise, commitment, and assistance when they need it.

When major updates become available, customers can move to them at their convenience without paying more. This can simplify management of both the economic and practical aspects of system updates.
